documentation/documentation.adoc, before:

= ausleiherino24

== General
The application "ausleiherino24" acts as a platform to lend, borrow and sell all sorts of articles.

The key aspects are:

* User management
* Overview over all available articles
* Detailed view of every article
* Possibility for logged in users to offer an article
* Possibility for logged in users to borrow an article
* Payment of borrowed articles using ProPay
* Conflict resolution


== Management
* To provide a convenient overview of our project we used **Javadocs** throughout the project.
* Since the project requires a certain amount of configuration we started our own **wiki** in github. Here we describe the different configurations and the initial setup. The **Logins** are also located there.


== Functionality
=== Main page
The main age is visible for everybody, even if not logged in. It displays all available Products.
If a product is rented it is not displayed. The Articles are categorized and the category of the
displayed articles can be selected. Additionally the articles can be searched by name.

=== Detailed article view
The detailed article view are only accessible to logged in users.
Next to the article details it displays the article reviews and provides a button to rent or buy the article.

=== Booking modal
As soon as a article shall be booked (by pressing the booking button), a modal is displayed.
As soon the booking period was selected the booking can be confirmed.

=== Bank account
In the personal bank account the current balance can be viewed,
new money can be requested and past transactions be viewed.

=== Profile
On the profile page, personal information can be viewed and edited.

=== Overview
The overview page provides a set of functionality:
* **My articles:** Overview over own articles with the options to update or delete them.
* **Borrowed:** Overview over borrowed articles.
* **Returned:** Overview over returned articles with the option to accept the return or open a conflict.
* **Request:** Overview over requested articles with the option to accept or decline the request.
* **Sold:** Overview over sold articles.

=== Add Item
On the Add item page a new item can be created. Special notice is to be taken to the `For Sale` check box.
This checkbox determines if a article is for sale or if it only can be borrowed.

=== Returning an article
A user can return an article at every time he likes.
If a User does not return a article before the end of the rental period, the person retrieves
a remainder in form of an email. The availability of the article does not update automatically but
lies in the responsibility of the renting person.
If somebody wants to rent an article that has not been returned yet, the renting person can simply decline it.

=== Chat (beta feature)
A chat can be reached at `/chatBoard`. Messages can be sent to other users in the chat by providing the username.


TIP: To test and explore the application, we have created two separate accounts to log in:
 Hans, who is a base user and is able to borrow, lend and sell articles, and the Admin, who is also able
 to resolve conflicts.


== Project overview
=== Design pattern
The design pattern we are aiming for is the classical Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern.
To outsource shared code from the controllers we introduced a additional service layer.
Although this is conform with the MVC pattern it is also referred to as
https://glossar.hs-augsburg.de/Model-View-Controller-Service-Paradigma[Model-View-Controller-Service]
pattern (MVCS).

=== Project structure
The project structure follows the design pattern with model, view and controller (here named web)
packages. Logic to interact with ProPay is located in a separate ProPay-handler package.

==== UML-Diagram (best to open it separately)
image::ausleiherino24-UML-full.png[GitHub mascot]


== Model
=== Article
An article is represented by the `Article` class. Next to descriptive features like name,
description and image, it has relations to the owner of the article (instance of `User`) and to
related cases. Custom logic is implemented to keep the article in sync with its related cases and
retrieve information about the current state of the article.

=== Case
The class `Case` represents a contract between loaner and borrower. It links two Users, `receiver`
and the owner of the article, together. Additionally time, pricing and status information are stored
here. For every article borrowed a new case is created. An article is considered available if no
case for the current time is present.

=== Category
The `Category` enumeration provides simple tags for articles.
These tags enable a simple structuring of articles.

=== ChatMessage
To implement a simple user chat, the `ChatMessage` class was needed. It is a simple data class that,
in essence, stores the text, receiver and sender of a chat message.

=== Conflict
To manage conflicts in the rental process the `Conflict` class was introduced. It wraps the
conflicted case with a description and a user who is responsible to resolve the conflict.

=== CustomerReview
A simple rating mechanism is implemented using the `CustomerReview` class.
It links a numeric rating (`stars` (higher is better)) and a corresponding description to a case.

NOTE: The star-feature is _beta_ and not fully working.

=== CustomUserDetails
The `CustomUserDetails` class is simply needed to use our own `User` class with spring security.

=== PPTransaction
The `PpTransaction` class represents a ProPay transaction.

=== ResolveConflict
TODO: Write description.

=== User/Person
To represent customers of our platform we decided to split the required information into two
classes, `User` and  `Person`.

==== User
To manage the login and permissions we created the `Users` class. Here we store sensitive
information like the password or the role.

==== Person
Additional user information, like name or contact is stored in the class `Person`. To connect a
Person with a User, a one-to-one relation is provided.


== Controller
=== ArticleController
The `ArticleController` maps requests to show, create, save, update and deactivate articles.

=== CaseController
The `CaseController` maps requests to book and buy articles and create corresponding cases.
In Addition it maps accept and declines cases, accept case returns and writes reviews.

=== ChatController
The in essence the `ChatController` maps the received chat messages to the endpoints of the
Spring `MessageBroker`.

=== ConflictController
The `conflictController` maps requests to open a conflict and allows admins to view all existing
conflicts and decide who receives the deposit.

=== ImageController
The `ImageController` essentially maps the services provided by the `ImageService` to appropriate
endpoints.

=== MainController
The `MainController` maps requests that you can view without being logged in. Those include the
index, index filtered by categories, the login page and the registration page.

=== UserController
The `UserController` maps user specific requests. In particular those which you can access through
the navigation bar. Furthermore you can save your profile, add money to your ProPay account and
access profile views.


== Services
=== ArticleService
The 'ArticleService' provides besides basic functions like saving and updating articles methods to
find Articles and Lists of Articles by different attributes, for example the name, the id or by user.
The service also contains methods to deactivate or sell articles.

=== CaseService
The 'CaseService' handles all actions associated with cases. That includes saving cases in the database,
find cases by different attributes and methods to check different flags/variables of cases.
It also provides functions to request to lend an article, declining or accepting those requests,
selling articles or opening conflicts.

=== ConflictService
The 'ConflictService' manages the conflicts that may occur when a article is lend. It is responsible
for creating conflicts, deleting and deactivating conflicts and solving conflicts.

=== CustomerReviewService
The 'CustomReviewService' provides functions to save and find customer review.

=== ImageService
The `ImageService` is used to upload images to a file system and retrieve them.
Images are stored in a configurable directory (outside of the project). Methods to store a image in
the form of a `File` or a `MultipartFile` object are provided. Each stored image is named by a
generated UID followed by an appropriate file extension.

Additionally on can provide a number to the storing methods (`binningId`). This so called binning id
is used to store files in a specific subdirectory. This leads to a B-tree like structure which can
speed up the search for a specific image.

=== PersonService
The `PersonService` provides methods to save and find a person.

=== SearchUserService
The 'SearchUserService' has a method that gives user details to a given username.

=== UserService
The `UserService` provides different methods to save, create and find a user.


== Security
All URLs except _index_, _login_ and _registration_ are locked for Users not
logged in.

The application differentiates between admin and user permissions. This is
realized through corresponding role-definitions in the Spring-Security-Configuration.

For all passwords the a Encoder, namely _BCryptPasswordEncoder_ implemented. It
encodes/decodes the passwords on registration/login and additionally provides
a strong encryption by applying the BCrypt-Hashfunction.


== ProPayHandler
=== AccountHandler
The AccountHandler is responsible for all requests to ProPay,
which target the /account URL.
Most Functions do not check or return the status code,
because they can never be called if ProPay is not available or
the Request could not be performed.

=== PpAccount
This class provides the model for the Accounts received by ProPay.
The only Method implemented is used to show the Funds,
which are actually free to user and not reserved.

=== Reservation
This class provides the model for the Reservations in the PpAccount.

=== Reservation Handler
The ReservationHandler is responsible for all requests to ProPay,
which target the /reservation URL.
The transfer Method is also called here by using the Local AccountHandler.
This way we ensured that no Funds are blocked or used in between releasing
the initial Reservation for the deposit and Price and creating the new deposit
Reservation.
Most Functions do not check or return the status code,
because they can never be called if ProPay is not available or
the Request could not be performed.


== Email
=== EmailConfig
This class injects the Email-Configuration-Properties (which are declared in the
application.properties) in to its instance variables of the same name.

=== EmailSender
This class configures the JavaMailSenderImpl to use the correct properties provided
by its EmailConfig instance variable. Furtermore it sets the Email-Information (From, To, ...)
as well as the Email-body depending on the method called and finally sends the Email.

=== CaseEndTimeReminder
This class sends out reminding-Emails to every case-Receiver whos case-endTime
is on the following day.

== Deviations from the task descriptions
* According to our architectural idea the available offers are **visible even when not logged in.**
* A customer who lend an article isn't able to return it before the agreed end time.
* When a customer returns an article too late, the availability time for the article isn't updated.
* If a customer disables a listing, it will not be visible at all in the view for everyone else,
  instead of showing a "not available" icon.
* As discussed with https://github.com/n2o[Christian Meter] we included the javadocs for our application,
  which we could generate because they were properly implemented throughout the whole source-code, even through,
  according to the main task given, generated files must not be checked in.
* The given main-task demanded to use _int_ for the prices. As discussed with the organizers we used _double_
  to provide a more precise calculation.

== Committed production file.
We have noticed, that a production file had been pushed to the 'master'-branch, even though the
folder containing it had been *explicitly* ignored in the project's _.gitignore_.
In order to not majorly disrupt the team's workflow and to ensure a qualitative end result,
we have consulted with https://github.com/bendisposto[Dr. Bendisposto] and https://github.com/bivab[Mr. David Schneider] to not revert the git-history
and keep it as is, but we have deleted the unwanted file from the repository in commit
https://github.com/hhu-propra2/abschlussprojekt-makeitlookeasy/commit/c90bb08f5ef96a8248156b6f9da2e6f95dc6d4a9[c90bb08].

== Persistence and general configuration
Even in development-mode, persistence is realized through a bind mount configuration for all running services. In
production-mode persistence is guaranteed through unnamed docker-volumes, only port 8080 of the application itself
is exposed to the local-machine, while the remaining services function by being linked to the main app, only
exposing their ports inside the docker environment but not to the local host.

Commit message:

* added final note regarding piTest which had to be disabled after upgrading to junit5 (not supported in current release) to the documentation

documentation/documentation.adoc, after:

= ausleiherino24

== General
The application "ausleiherino24" acts as a platform to lend, borrow and sell all sorts of articles.

The key aspects are:

* User management
* Overview over all available articles
* Detailed view of every article
* Possibility for logged in users to offer an article
* Possibility for logged in users to borrow an article
* Payment of borrowed articles using ProPay
* Conflict resolution


== Management
* To provide a convenient overview of our project we used **Javadocs** throughout the project.
* Since the project requires a certain amount of configuration we started our own **wiki** in github. Here we describe the different configurations and the initial setup. The **Logins** are also located there.


== Functionality
=== Main page
The main age is visible for everybody, even if not logged in. It displays all available Products.
If a product is rented it is not displayed. The Articles are categorized and the category of the
displayed articles can be selected. Additionally the articles can be searched by name.

=== Detailed article view
The detailed article view are only accessible to logged in users.
Next to the article details it displays the article reviews and provides a button to rent or buy the article.

=== Booking modal
As soon as a article shall be booked (by pressing the booking button), a modal is displayed.
As soon the booking period was selected the booking can be confirmed.

=== Bank account
In the personal bank account the current balance can be viewed,
new money can be requested and past transactions be viewed.

=== Profile
On the profile page, personal information can be viewed and edited.

=== Overview
The overview page provides a set of functionality:
* **My articles:** Overview over own articles with the options to update or delete them.
* **Borrowed:** Overview over borrowed articles.
* **Returned:** Overview over returned articles with the option to accept the return or open a conflict.
* **Request:** Overview over requested articles with the option to accept or decline the request.
* **Sold:** Overview over sold articles.

=== Add Item
On the Add item page a new item can be created. Special notice is to be taken to the `For Sale` check box.
This checkbox determines if a article is for sale or if it only can be borrowed.

=== Returning an article
A user can return an article at every time he likes.
If a User does not return a article before the end of the rental period, the person retrieves
a remainder in form of an email. The availability of the article does not update automatically but
lies in the responsibility of the renting person.
If somebody wants to rent an article that has not been returned yet, the renting person can simply decline it.

=== Chat (beta feature)
A chat can be reached at `/chatBoard`. Messages can be sent to other users in the chat by providing the username.


TIP: To test and explore the application, we have created two separate accounts to log in:
 Hans, who is a base user and is able to borrow, lend and sell articles, and the Admin, who is also able
 to resolve conflicts.


== Project overview
=== Design pattern
The design pattern we are aiming for is the classical Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern.
To outsource shared code from the controllers we introduced a additional service layer.
Although this is conform with the MVC pattern it is also referred to as
https://glossar.hs-augsburg.de/Model-View-Controller-Service-Paradigma[Model-View-Controller-Service]
pattern (MVCS).

=== Project structure
The project structure follows the design pattern with model, view and controller (here named web)
packages. Logic to interact with ProPay is located in a separate ProPay-handler package.

==== UML-Diagram (best to open it separately)
image::ausleiherino24-UML-full.png[GitHub mascot]


== Model
=== Article
An article is represented by the `Article` class. Next to descriptive features like name,
description and image, it has relations to the owner of the article (instance of `User`) and to
related cases. Custom logic is implemented to keep the article in sync with its related cases and
retrieve information about the current state of the article.

=== Case
The class `Case` represents a contract between loaner and borrower. It links two Users, `receiver`
and the owner of the article, together. Additionally time, pricing and status information are stored
here. For every article borrowed a new case is created. An article is considered available if no
case for the current time is present.

=== Category
The `Category` enumeration provides simple tags for articles.
These tags enable a simple structuring of articles.

=== ChatMessage
To implement a simple user chat, the `ChatMessage` class was needed. It is a simple data class that,
in essence, stores the text, receiver and sender of a chat message.

=== Conflict
To manage conflicts in the rental process the `Conflict` class was introduced. It wraps the
conflicted case with a description and a user who is responsible to resolve the conflict.

=== CustomerReview
A simple rating mechanism is implemented using the `CustomerReview` class.
It links a numeric rating (`stars` (higher is better)) and a corresponding description to a case.

NOTE: The star-feature is _beta_ and not fully working.

=== CustomUserDetails
The `CustomUserDetails` class is simply needed to use our own `User` class with spring security.

=== PPTransaction
The `PpTransaction` class represents a ProPay transaction.

=== ResolveConflict
TODO: Write description.

=== User/Person
To represent customers of our platform we decided to split the required information into two
classes, `User` and  `Person`.

==== User
To manage the login and permissions we created the `Users` class. Here we store sensitive
information like the password or the role.

==== Person
Additional user information, like name or contact is stored in the class `Person`. To connect a
Person with a User, a one-to-one relation is provided.


== Controller
=== ArticleController
The `ArticleController` maps requests to show, create, save, update and deactivate articles.

=== CaseController
The `CaseController` maps requests to book and buy articles and create corresponding cases.
In Addition it maps accept and declines cases, accept case returns and writes reviews.

=== ChatController
The in essence the `ChatController` maps the received chat messages to the endpoints of the
Spring `MessageBroker`.

=== ConflictController
The `conflictController` maps requests to open a conflict and allows admins to view all existing
conflicts and decide who receives the deposit.

=== ImageController
The `ImageController` essentially maps the services provided by the `ImageService` to appropriate
endpoints.

=== MainController
The `MainController` maps requests that you can view without being logged in. Those include the
index, index filtered by categories, the login page and the registration page.

=== UserController
The `UserController` maps user specific requests. In particular those which you can access through
the navigation bar. Furthermore you can save your profile, add money to your ProPay account and
access profile views.


== Services
=== ArticleService
The 'ArticleService' provides besides basic functions like saving and updating articles methods to
find Articles and Lists of Articles by different attributes, for example the name, the id or by user.
The service also contains methods to deactivate or sell articles.

=== CaseService
The 'CaseService' handles all actions associated with cases. That includes saving cases in the database,
find cases by different attributes and methods to check different flags/variables of cases.
It also provides functions to request to lend an article, declining or accepting those requests,
selling articles or opening conflicts.

=== ConflictService
The 'ConflictService' manages the conflicts that may occur when a article is lend. It is responsible
for creating conflicts, deleting and deactivating conflicts and solving conflicts.

=== CustomerReviewService
The 'CustomReviewService' provides functions to save and find customer review.

=== ImageService
The `ImageService` is used to upload images to a file system and retrieve them.
Images are stored in a configurable directory (outside of the project). Methods to store a image in
the form of a `File` or a `MultipartFile` object are provided. Each stored image is named by a
generated UID followed by an appropriate file extension.

Additionally on can provide a number to the storing methods (`binningId`). This so called binning id
is used to store files in a specific subdirectory. This leads to a B-tree like structure which can
speed up the search for a specific image.

=== PersonService
The `PersonService` provides methods to save and find a person.

=== SearchUserService
The 'SearchUserService' has a method that gives user details to a given username.

=== UserService
The `UserService` provides different methods to save, create and find a user.


== Security
All URLs except _index_, _login_ and _registration_ are locked for Users not
logged in.

The application differentiates between admin and user permissions. This is
realized through corresponding role-definitions in the Spring-Security-Configuration.

For all passwords the a Encoder, namely _BCryptPasswordEncoder_ implemented. It
encodes/decodes the passwords on registration/login and additionally provides
a strong encryption by applying the BCrypt-Hashfunction.


== ProPayHandler
=== AccountHandler
The AccountHandler is responsible for all requests to ProPay,
which target the /account URL.
Most Functions do not check or return the status code,
because they can never be called if ProPay is not available or
the Request could not be performed.

=== PPAccount
This class provides the model for the Accounts received by ProPay.
The only Method implemented is used to show the Funds,
which are actually free to user and not reserved.

=== Reservation
This class provides the model for the Reservations in the PpAccount.

=== Reservation Handler
The ReservationHandler is responsible for all requests to ProPay,
which target the /reservation URL.
The transfer Method is also called here by using the Local AccountHandler.
This way we ensured that no Funds are blocked or used in between releasing
the initial Reservation for the deposit and Price and creating the new deposit
Reservation.
Most Functions do not check or return the status code,
because they can never be called if ProPay is not available or
the Request could not be performed.


== Email
=== EmailConfig
This class injects the Email-Configuration-Properties (which are declared in the
application.properties) in to its instance variables of the same name.

=== EmailSender
This class configures the JavaMailSenderImpl to use the correct properties provided
by its EmailConfig instance variable. Furtermore it sets the Email-Information (From, To, ...)
as well as the Email-body depending on the method called and finally sends the Email.

=== CaseEndTimeReminder
This class sends out reminding-Emails to every case-Receiver whos case-endTime
is on the following day.

== Deviations from the task descriptions
* According to our architectural idea the available offers are **visible even when not logged in.**
* A customer who lend an article isn't able to return it before the agreed end time.
* When a customer returns an article too late, the availability time for the article isn't updated.
* If a customer disables a listing, it will not be visible at all in the view for everyone else,
  instead of showing a "not available" icon.
* As discussed with https://github.com/n2o[Christian Meter] we included the javadocs for our application,
  which we could generate because they were properly implemented throughout the whole source-code, even through,
  according to the main task given, generated files must not be checked in.
* The given main-task demanded to use _int_ for the prices. As discussed with the organizers we used _double_
  to provide a more precise calculation.

== Committed production file.
We have noticed, that a production file had been pushed to the 'master'-branch, even though the
folder containing it had been *explicitly* ignored in the project's _.gitignore_.
In order to not majorly disrupt the team's workflow and to ensure a qualitative end result,
we have consulted with https://github.com/bendisposto[Dr. Bendisposto] and https://github.com/bivab[Mr. David Schneider] to not revert the git-history
and keep it as is, but we have deleted the unwanted file from the repository in commit
https://github.com/hhu-propra2/abschlussprojekt-makeitlookeasy/commit/c90bb08f5ef96a8248156b6f9da2e6f95dc6d4a9[c90bb08].

== Persistence and general configuration
Even in development-mode, persistence is realized through a bind mount configuration for all running services. In
production-mode persistence is guaranteed through unnamed docker-volumes, only port 8080 of the application itself
is exposed to the local-machine, while the remaining services function by being linked to the main app, only
exposing their ports inside the docker environment but not to the local host.

== final note
We implemented piTest and it passed all builds during the time we used junit4 (see travis build history).
Unfortunately it had to be disabled after upgrading to junit5, as the current piTest release does not support this version yet.
